## Reflection

Our group made a walkthrough guide for building a LAN chat app, walking the user through building both the backend and frontend web app from scratch. Considering that this project is technically-oriented, we found the best delivery mode was to make a github repository containing the instructions on how to make the app. We made a README.md that works as a document with instructions where we break down the project into two sections, frontend and backend. We further split these sections into subsections such as the separation of adding UI elements and making the frontend interactive. These sections functioned as clear stopping points in the instructions in case the user needed a break. Also, unlike other coding tutorials where the user usually copies lines of code verbatim, we provided hints, API references, and expected behavior in the form of screenshots so that the user could not only follow along but gain general programming knowledge from the instructions. Furthermore, if the user did not want to take the time to figure things out, we still included full reference solutions at the end of every section. (The entire repository is also a fully working reference solution.)

Technical documentation is usually written in Markdown (.md), and github is a great way to distribute and view Markdown files. Writing the instructions in Markdown made it possible to not only include screenshots and videos of expected behavior but also separate code, plain text, and command line instructions so the user would not get confused during the tutorial. We placed information that was not directly relevant (but still helpful) in Tip and Info boxes scattered throughout the tutorial. The inclusion of expected behavior at different steps also let the user see how well they were doing so far progress wise throughout the tutorial. The language throughout the instructions is meant to facilitate a neutral and welcoming tone towards the user (Through the use of phrasing such as “our code…”, “we can now do..”). Since our goal was to also have the user leave with new knowledge such language helped mitigate possible frustration when that comes with the debugging process in programming, and the reference solutions (that are hidden by default) at the end of every major section help solve any problems they may encounter during the tutorial. This ensures that the user can complete the tutorial and end with a working web app.

After writing the instructions, we had a user test it and he successfully made a working app within an hour. A few problems did arise, mainly about instruction comprehension. Since our group has experience working with the libraries and frameworks used in the tutorial, we failed to accommodate those with less experience by inadvertently skipping over steps that seemed like “common sense.” Moreover, we found that most of the difficulty in following the instructions occurred in the second half during the frontend part of the tutorial for interactivity. That was pretty clear as the user spent around 10min on the backend section and upwards of 30min on the frontend section. On reflection, this was clear because we didn’t provide enough guidance on what specific HTML elements to put down, or even consider. While it is good for the user to spend time on the steps so they get to learn, we don’t intend on them getting stuck. For our revision, we made our instructions more explicit and added in more “expected behavior” screenshots and intermediate reference solutions to help guide the user. We had to take the perspective of a user with less knowledge to better understand the necessary changes we needed to make for a better user experience.

## Project splits

Eric: Code, instructions, and usability reflection revisions
Immanuel: Instructions, user testing, and usability reflection
Elijah: Code revisions, usability reflection
